# Interstate-Airlines-project

1) The airline has several types of planes of varying passenger capacities and flight ranges. There are one or more aircraft of each type in the airline’s fleet. Each aircraft has a unique serial number.

2) Pilots are certified only on certain types of planes and the date certified for each plane type needs to be kept. Also, include the pilot’s birthdate, unique social security number and cell phone number. Each scheduled flight is assigned a pilot.

3) A flight, which is identified by a unique flight number, has a city of origin and a city of destination but no intermediate stops. The time of departure from the origination city and arrival at the destination city are also recorded. An actual, scheduled flight has a date, an aircraft, and a pilot in addition to all of the above information. A scheduled flight is uniquely identified by the combination of a flight number and date.

4) Passengers are booked on scheduled flights. Passengers make a reservation but are not assigned specific seats. For purposes of this database, we will assume that passengers are uniquely identified by an ID of some sort generated by the database system. Also needed for passengers is the first and last name, the main phone number, street address, city, state, zip, email (if available) and birthdate.

5) The system must be able to satisfy the following reports that print to screen:
a) For each type of plane, list the type code (C8), the type description (C30), the capacity (D3), and the flight range (D4).
b) For each aircraft, list the serial number (C12) and the code and description of the type of plane.
c) For each pilot, list the pilot number (D5) and the name of the pilot (C30). In addition, list the type code and description of each of the types of planes on which the pilot is certified as well as the flight number (D3), date, and aircraft serial number for all flights on which the pilot is currently scheduled.
d) d) For each city served, list the code for the city (C3), then name of the city (C30), the name of the state (C2), and a description of the airport (C30). Should be in city name order.
e) For each aircraft, list the serial number, year it was manufactured, the last date it was serviced and its next service date.

6) The system must satisfy the following queries (the user is prompted to give the flight number or date to get the information requested):
 a) For a given point of origination and destination, list all flights scheduled that still have seats available and include the number of seats available and the date. Note: should be in alphabetical order of origination city.
 b) For a given date, list all of the pilots scheduled for flight including the pilot number (ID), pilot name and the serial number of the aircraft and plane type description.
 c) For a given flight, list the flight number, the code and name of the city of origination, the time of departure, the code and name of the destination city, and the time of arrival.
 
